# PM51

Depending on the chip there seems to be one or more 8051 cores embedded.
The main one seems to be pm51 (power management?) but there are references to hk51 (house keeping?) which might be the same thing.
There then seems to sometimes also be an 8051 that is responsible for handling part of the video input pipeline.

For now let's worry about pm51.

pm51 seems to be able to access:
- miu: to access the main system memory
- riu: to access peripheral registers. Some of the code suggests that pm51 can access the pm domain peripherals by
  default but needs register configuration to enable accessing registers in the "die domain".
- spi flash: seems to have access to memory mapped spi nor.. not sure where in the flash.
  The infinity3 docs have an empty section at the start of the flash presumably this is for the pm51
- maybe 64KB of it's own SRAM that is not accessible to the ARM cpu. It seems like BDMA has to be used to transfer
  data into it. Some of the BDMA headers have "1ksram" however. So it could be either.

## Code loading references

- [spi flash](https://github.com/github188/sdk-2/blob/150ec8ff9cc9004fec65cfdb512a0db6cc1b8fac/mhal/i2/utpa/modules/bdma/hal/i2/bdma/halBDMA.c#L994)
- [sram](https://github.com/neuschaefer/mstar-mboot/blob/962e8b8258378dded694883a9f9acb7058d34631/MstarCustomer/MSTAR/src/CusPM.c#L314)

## Block diagram

This is a guess!


```
  -----------------
 |     8051 CPU    |
  -----------------          ---------------                      -----           ---------
 | Program Counter |------->| MCU Registers |<------------------>| RIU |<------->| ARM CPU |
  -----------------          ---------------           |      |   -----      |    ---------
 |                 |----------------------------------/       |              |
 |                 |         ---------------       ------     |              |
 |     Memory      |<------>|      SRAM     |<----| BDMA |----/              |
 |                 |         ---------------       ------                    |
 |                 |<--\     ---------------                      -----      |
 |                 |    |   |      DDR      |--------------------| MIU |----/
  -----------------     |    ---------------                      -----
                        |                                           |
                        |                                       --------
                        \------------------------------------->| XD2MIU |
                                                                --------
```

## MCU registers

- The program counter is visible to the ARM CPU. In the vendor code checking if the PC is changing
  is used to detect if the 8051 is running.
- The program counter visible to the ARM CPU is 24 bits wide. Presumably the lower 16 bits are the
  8051 PC and then upper 8 bits are the current bank or something?
- The IO ports are also visibile to the ARM CPU and it seems the ARM cpu can write values into them..
  really crappy data exchange method?

## Memory map

- It seems possible to map in some SRAM that is just for the 8051.
  It seems that this memory is only writable from the ARM cpu via BDMA and it can't be read back.
- Part of the SPI NOR can be mapped into the 8051 memory map. This seems to need some locking to
  stop the ARM cpu and 8051 fighting but this code was removed from the linux drivers at some point.
- Part of the DDR memory can be mapped into the 8051 memory map.
- There seems to be some sort of caching for the code called "icache".. maybe to get around SPI being slow?
- For SRAM, SPI and DDR it seems possible to decide where and how much are mapped in to 24bits of address space.
